1/3endo first presentation Doctor's letter, 29.04.2025 13:48
Landeskrankenanstaltes-Betriebsgesellschaft-Kabeg, UID-No.: ATU25802806
Business book number: FN 71434 A, CEO: State Court as Commercial Court Klagenfurt am Wörthersee
Information on data protection at www.kabeg.at/datenschutz
Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics
Clinical-scientific endometriosis center
Certified breast health center
Board: Priv.doz.dr.oliver Preyer, MBA
Nikolaigasse43
A-9500 Villach
E gyn.villach@kabeg.at
www.kabeg.at
Case no.: 2515269330
.2002
Consultation or transfer reason
Anamnesis
Endo first presentation Doctor's letter
Allocation of Dr. Muttenthaler at especially endometriosis.
Size 168 cm, weight 60 kg
Nicotine: negated
Menarche with the age of 11, cycle regular, duration about 25 days with 5-6-day menstrual period
Currently existing complaints:
1. Dysmenorrhea up to NAS 7-8 in the first two regular bleeding days the worst in which the patient
Has vomiting and delivery problems and has to lie in bed. In this regard, she takes Parkemed 2-3 tablets
per day. Among them, the symptoms get better up to NAS 3-4.
2. Pronounced dyspareunia already when entering, but also partially in depth, whereupon the sex life
the patient suffers massively.
3. On the part of the digestion, the patient reports that she is generally sensitive and often has to vomit
during the menstrual period. Loss of appetite, nausea and bloated stomach. She tends to do so during the menstrual period
Diarrhea and also partially mucus storage. Due to the symptoms, the patient has from her
Gynecologist prescribed the pill. First translation, including it, she has severe psychological
Restrictions developed. Then switch to Kelzy. She has increased under this. In the end
Lyzbet was taken in the long cycle in December. Below the patient feels comfortable, the symptoms
have also gotten significantly better.
Gynecology outpatient clinics - Nikolaigasse 43 43 - 9500 Villach
27.02.2025villach, on
Janscheke / Waldnerc
Gentleman
Dr. med. Harald Muttenthaler
Seilerstaette 7
4360 Grein
2002, W
Endo first presentation Doctor's letter, 29.04.2025 13:48 2/3
Status, diagnostics and findings
Other recommended measures
Best regards
Finding: Dr. Elisabeth Janschek
Vidated by: Dr. Elisabeth Janschek
This document was signed electronically on April 2nd, 2025.
PS: Your family doctor can prescribe the same drug medication, but with a different name and appearance.
Various diseases: Great psychological stress in recent years, whereupon Escitalopram 20 mg 1 x a day
initiated.
Multiple Nierenoperationen bei Nierensteinen bds., seit Jänner 2024 auch vorübergehend JJ-Einlage und immer
again hydronephroses. In this regard, control in Linz in urology.
No allergies:
Preliminary operations: kidneys
Desire to have children: latent
G0/P0
Diagnosis:
N94.4 Primary Dysmenorrhea
N80.8 Other endometriosis
N80.9 Endometriosis, not described in more detail
Exclusion of deep infiltrating endometriosis
Especially adenomyosis uteri
External genital age -olds are inconspicuous. Already when spreading the large labia, it works
Patient cramped. When introducing the Portio speculum, inconspicuous. Hinter fornix free of endometriosis.
Current bleeding.
Palpatory, very painful pelvic floor Bds., In the deep uterus well movable, parameters bds. Frei.
Transvaginal sonographic urethra, urinary bladder and visible ureter sections unremarkable, uterus
retroflected, somewhat spherical with especially adenomyosis uteri. The ovaries Bds. Orthotop located, inconspicuous.
Lowly hyperechogenic liquid in the small pool, possibly a retrograde menses.
Ligamenta Sacrout. Bds. Inconspicuous. Positive sliding phenomenon in the front and rear compartment.
Renal sonography Bds. Unrespectful. Darmes as far as persecuted.
In today's examination, deep infiltrating endometriosis cannot be represented, but the
Adenomyosis uteri. We continue to recommend the therapy with Lyzbet in the long cycle. Currently has
The patient for 11 days of permanent bleeding, so we recommend a short pill break of 4 days
And start a renewed dienogest cycle.
In the case of unwanted side effects or more frequent bleeding, a
Hormone spiral can be considered.
With regard to dyspareunia and pelviodynia we recommend pelvic floor physiotherapy with pelvic floor feedback
And if necessary, too. In this regard, the patient received an assignment.
Control of the complaints from an endometriosis specialist in the resident area in 1 year
recommended.
Code S name
2002, W
Endo first presentation Doctor's letter, 29.04.2025 13:48 3/3
Dr. Elisabeth Janschek
1. Senior doctor