1/3endo first presentation Doctor's letter, 29.04.2025 13:39
Landeskrankenanstaltes-Betriebsgesellschaft-Kabeg, UID-No.: ATU25802806
Business book number: FN 71434 A, CEO: State Court as Commercial Court Klagenfurt am Wörthersee
Information on data protection at www.kabeg.at/datenschutz
Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics
Clinical-scientific endometriosis center
Certified breast health center
Board: Priv.doz.dr.oliver Preyer, MBA
Nikolaigasse43
A-9500 Villach
E gyn.villach@kabeg.at
www.kabeg.at
Case no.: 2515252730
.1997
Consultation or transfer reason
Anamnesis
Endo first presentation Doctor's letter
Allocation of Dr. Hinkelmann if there is suspicion of endometriosis.
The patient comes with the assignment of her family doctor if you suspect endometriosis and hypermenorrhea.
Take height: 157 cm, body weight: 60 kg
Nicotine Abusus: approx. 10 cigarettes TG.
Menarche with 13th LJ.
Currently existing complaints:
1. The foreground is hypermenorrhea, where the patient tampons and period underwear at the same time
Applied. In this regard, the patient has an iron deficiency.
Hypermenorrhea increased after stopping the pill in 2019. The pill was due to a vasectomy
of the partner. Previously, the patient had taken the Moniq pill for about 2-3 years.
At the end of the take, she always had bleeding. Otherwise she has the pill relatively good
tolerated.
2. Dysmenorrhea has also been accompanying the pill up to approx. NAS 7, partly with nausea.
In this regard, the patient takes seractile with 1-2 tablets daily.
can be reduced to NAS 2.
3. On the part of the dyspareunia, the patient actually has no complaints, but she reports on always
Again contact bleeding 1-2 days later.
Gynecology outpatient clinics - Nikolaigasse 43 43 - 9500 Villach
27.02.2025villach, on
ZIUNLEL / KATELDD
Gentleman
Dr. med. Gerald Hinkelmann
Factory path 40
8160 Weiz
1997, W
Endo first presentation Doctor's letter, 29.04.2025 13:39 2/3
Status, diagnostics and findings
Summary assessment
4. On the part of digestion, the patient gives a tendency to diarrhea during the menstrual period. Outside
the menstrual bleeding rather unobtrusive stool conditions, sometimes with the menstrual bleeding also mucus storage.
Furthermore, no complaints on the part of micturition.
Medicines: Seractile if necessary
Previous illnesses: migraines with aura (approx. 2-3 times a month, currently in treatment for new therapy)
Preliminary operations: ankle
The desire to have children according to the patient (but partner vasectomized, the desire to have children is not yet
followed)
G0/P0
Diagnosis:
N80.9 Endometriosis, not described in more detail
N80.0 endometriosis of the uterus
N80.1 Endometriosis of the ovar
Deep infiltrating endometriosis with the participation of the Ligamentum Sacrouterinum BDS.
#Enzian a ?, B 2/2, O 0/1, C?, Fa
Investigation findings:
Outside genital, age -old. Specula setting: portio with an ectopia, back fornix free
of endometriosis. Palpatorial mobility somewhat limited, but not a clear scarred strand
palpable.
Transvaginal sonographic urethra, urinary bladder and visible ureter sections inconspicuous. Uterus in AVFL,
kugelig, entsprechend möglicher Adenomyosis uteri. The right ovary from the pool wall relatively good
moving, but glued with the uterus towards the ligamentum sacrouterinum, also has a small one
Endometrioma of approx. 2 cm. To the ovar and septumrectovaginal, a tightly scarred strand extends from
Colon. This measures 1.5 cm x 1.5 cm. The ovary is relatively high on the left, small, not clear
representable and packed between intestinal loops, but without indication of endometrioma. Clear
Admacles in this area with the uterus. Before the uterus on the left, also a questionable other
Endometriosherd (focal adenomyosis?).
The intestine as far as persecuted without a clear indication of intestinal sterd, but glued to the set pumrectovaginal
and ligamentum sacrouterinum on the right. Sliding phenomenon in the rear compariment significantly restricted,
Positive in the front compariment.
In today's examination, deep -infiltrating endometriosis with infestation of the ligament can be
Sacrouterinum Bds. And endometrioma determine on the right side.
To complete the overall picture, we recommend carrying out an MRI in the resident area
And the MRI to come.
After the results are available, there is an idea of ​​the endoboard and a new control in the
Endometriosis outpatient clinic in 4–6 months.
In the meantime, the therapeutic options are discussed with the patient - both in the event of a
Existing desire to have children as well as if you want to have children. The partner is currently vasectomized, one
So far, it has not been reversed.
We recommend the introduction of a metrissa therapy. If the desire to have children, target the
Desire to have children for about 6-12 months.
If there is no pregnancy within this period, an operational renovation of the
To consider endometriosis. The patient currently wants to think about it. She receives a recipe for Metrissa
as well as a new appointment.
Code S name
1997, W
Endo first presentation Doctor's letter, 29.04.2025 13:39 3/3
Best regards
Finding: Dr. Laura Ziurle
Vidated by: Dr. Laura Ziurle
This document was signed electronically on February 28, 2025.
PS: Your family doctor can prescribe the same drug medication, but with a different name and appearance.
Dr. Laura Ziurle
Senior doctor