1/3endo first presentation Doctor's letter, 29.04.2025 13:46
Landeskrankenanstaltes-Betriebsgesellschaft-Kabeg, UID-No.: ATU25802806
Business book number: FN 71434 A, CEO: State Court as Commercial Court Klagenfurt am Wörthersee
Information on data protection at www.kabeg.at/datenschutz
Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics
Clinical-scientific endometriosis center
Certified breast health center
Board: Priv.doz.dr.oliver Preyer, MBA
Nikolaigasse43
A-9500 Villach
E gyn.villach@kabeg.at
www.kabeg.at
Case no.: 2515246230
.2002
Consultation or transfer reason
Anamnesis
Endo first presentation Doctor's letter
Especially endometriosis
Size 165 cm, weight 47 kg, BMI 17.3
Nicotine: yes 10 cigarettes/day
Currently existing complaints:
In the foreground is strong dysmenorrhea, most of the three days of the menstrual bleeding are accompanied by
Vomiting, nausea up to NAS 9-10.
- The dysmenorrhea has existed since the first menstrual period. In this regard, the patient has to lie in bed, tilts
partly due to the pain. She cannot keep the painkillers with herself, whereupon she
no pain relief in this regard.
- Digestion problem: Outside of the menstrual period, the patient tends to constipate during the
The patient has diarrhea, sometimes up to 10 times a day, also with periods to which they
must stay on the toilet continuously. The patient also feels pain in the intestinal area and on the anus
NAS 7-8. She also notices mucus deposits on the chair. With regard to intestinal problems is one
Colon mirroring and gastroscopy in planning.
- Dyspareunia: For 1.5 years, increasingly when penetrating, but also in depth up to NAS 6-7.
- On the part of micturition, bladder pain in the menstrual bleeding and slightly bloody urine.
Bleeding
Gynecology outpatient clinics - Nikolaigasse 43 43 - 9500 Villach
27.02.2025villach, on
Janscheke / Goellesu
Gentleman
Dr. Herwig Massong
Bundesstraße 66
8740 tent path
2002, W
Endo first presentation Doctor's letter, 29.04.2025 13:46 2/3
Status, diagnostics and findings
Summary assessment
Other recommended measures
Cycle rather irregular, duration of up to 60 days,
Medicines: Sertralin (will soon be discontinued due to depression pre-diseases),
Depression in treatment in Judenburg using psychotherapy
Allergies: none
Preliminary operations: Z.n. Milk cyst removal by means of PSK around the age of 15 (15 cm)
G0/P0
The patient has been trying to get pregnant for about 1 month.
In the past, the patient Larissa has taken for about 6 months. Due to vomiting and
Larissa was removed from the weight, it was moved to Selina, but this has its
Depression increases, whereupon the Selina was discontinued.
Diagnosis:
N76.0 Acute Kolpitis
N94.1 Dyspareunie
N94.6 Dysmenorrhea, not described in more detail
Bacterial vaginosis
Exclusion of deeply infiltrating endometriosis
Pronounced primary dysmenorrhea
Desire to have children
Nicotine
Especially bacterial vaginosis
Slim patient
External genital age -olds are inconspicuous.
Speculum setting: Portio unobtrusive, rear Fornix free of endometriosis. A chlamy service smear was
taken, pH value at 5.0. A slightly fish -like smell displayable in the microscopy Clue Cells.
Accordingly, there is a bacterial vaginosis.
Palpatory: tense pelvic floor with painful muscle levator on the thighs Bds. In the
Deep uterus well movable, the parameters bds. Free.
Transvaginal sonographic: urethra and urinary bladder to be inconspicuous. The visible ureter sections
On inconspicuous. Uterus in Avfl., Normally large with a high -built endometrium according to the 2nd half of the cycle.
The ovaries Bds. Orthotop located and inconspicuous, well displaced by the pelvic wall. Ligmentum
Sacrouterinum BDS. Inconspicuous in the front and rear compartment.
Renal sonography Bds. Unrespectful
Dalacin Vag for 3 days
In today's examination, deep -infiltrating endometriosis cannot be represented. However, because of the
The patient's symptoms would be possible peritonael endometriosis and by means of a abdominal mirroring
to exclude/ prove and treat.
Aktuell steht Kinderwunsch im Vordergrund, woraufhin wir die Optimierung der Bedingungen für die zukünftige
Pregnancy in the sense of vitamin D, iron status, thyroid parameter check and refresher of the
Recommend necessary vaccinations.
We also recommend the cycle observation with determining the highlight of the temperature, for the purpose of
Proof of ovulation due to the irregular cycle.
In addition, vegetable relief of the symptoms is recommended by teas (mixing suggestions
Code S name
2002, W
Endo first presentation Doctor's letter, 29.04.2025 13:46 3/3
Best regards
Finding: Dr. Elisabeth Janschek
Vidated by: Dr. Elisabeth Janschek
This document was signed electronically on April 2nd, 2025.
PS: Your family doctor can prescribe the same drug medication, but with a different name and appearance.
handed over) and monk pepper preparations for cycle regulation.
For pain relief due to nausea and vomiting, we recommend changing pain therapy
On voltaries up to 3x daily rectal.
Regarding dyspareunia, the implementation of a pelvic floor physiotherapy with a pelvic floor is recommended
Re-e-eDukation. A check in our endometriosis special ambulance when the pregnancy does not occur
In a year, agreed to clarify the tube factor and peritoneal endometriosis.
Dr. Elisabeth Janschek
1. Senior doctor