1/2endo first presentation Doctor's letter, 29.04.2025 13:34
Landeskrankenanstaltes-Betriebsgesellschaft-Kabeg, UID-No.: ATU25802806
Business book number: FN 71434 A, CEO: State Court as Commercial Court Klagenfurt am Wörthersee
Information on data protection at www.kabeg.at/datenschutz
Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics
Clinical-scientific endometriosis center
Certified breast health center
Board: Priv.doz.dr.oliver Preyer, MBA
Nikolaigasse43
A-9500 Villach
E gyn.villach@kabeg.at
www.kabeg.at
Case no.: 2515820330
.2007
Consultation or transfer reason
Anamnesis
Status, diagnostics and findings
Endo first presentation Doctor's letter
Presentation of Dr. Janach in primary dysmenorrhea, sometimes with such severe pain that the
Patientin bereits zweimalig den Notdienst rufen musste.
Menarche at the age of 12, without any noteworthy primary dysmenorrhea.
Since the age of 15, increasing dysmenorrho pain, some of which with vomiting and
Nausea accompanied, sometimes also with body pain and a clear feeling of cold.
The patient tried several analgesic and pills therapies, which unfortunately had to
Psychological side effects The therapy with Moniq and Larissa are discontinued, therapy with metrissa
has been well tolerated at the moment.
There are no significant changes during the menstrual period, regarding bowel movements or the
Micturition behavior.
Pain during sexual intercourse is not given by the patient, but occasional
Post -coital pain. The symptoms are cramped, stinging, in the right lower abdomen and
Then pull down to the legs.
Current investigation finding:
The external genitalia unobtrusive.
In the specula setting, the portio forms, the cervix, tubular.
Gynecology outpatient clinics - Nikolaigasse 43 43 - 9500 Villach
10.03.2025villach, on
Hageru / Doujakm
Woman
Dr. med. Andrea Janach
Parkstr.11
8010 Graz
2007, W
Endo first presentation Doctor's letter, 29.04.2025 13:34 2/2
Summary assessment
Best regards
Finding: Dr. Ulrike Hager
Vidated by: Dr. Ulrike Hager
This document was electronically signed on March 23, 2025.
PS: Your family doctor can prescribe the same drug medication, but with a different name and appearance.
Diagnosis:
N94.6 Dysmenorrhea, not described in more detail
N80.9 Endometriosis, not described in more detail
Pronounced dysmenorrhea at especially adenomyosis uteri as well as peritoneal endometriosis
In the bimanual examination, an already very hypertonic pelvic floor with trigger points grows over
the ligamentum sacrouterinum on the right, but without clear infestation regarding the
Endometriosis as well as left -wing. The uterus is easy to stretch. Palpatory in easier
Stretch position.
Sonographically the bladder filled slightly, the endothely smooth, the ureter mouth unobtrusive, the uterus in
Stretch position, the endometrium built to almost 1 cm high. The uterine corpus appears diffuse
Adenomyotically changed.
The adnex lodges without larger cystic formations, the ovaries lying in the fossa ovaricae, no indication of
Adhesions, no free liquid.
The kidneys without stowing signs.
With the patient, the therapy with regard to the treatment of the hypertone pelvic floor with physiotherapy is
discussed in the sense of a pelvic floor re-education.
Far increase of the magnesium to twice a day.
Additional pain therapy with ibuprofen and taking zinc 30 mg in the evening and omega 3 fatty acids.
A new attempt with Metrissa 2 mg is currently also desired by the patient, in this regard a
Recipe handed over.
Purchase control on our part in 3-6 months.
Dr. Ulrike Hager
Senior doctor
Code S name