1/2endo first presentation Doctor's letter, 29.04.2025 13:33
Landeskrankenanstaltes-Betriebsgesellschaft-Kabeg, UID-No.: ATU25802806
Business book number: FN 71434 A, CEO: State Court as Commercial Court Klagenfurt am Wörthersee
Information on data protection at www.kabeg.at/datenschutz
Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics
Clinical-scientific endometriosis center
Certified breast health center
Board: Priv.doz.dr.oliver Preyer, MBA
Nikolaigasse43
A-9500 Villach
E gyn.villach@kabeg.at
www.kabeg.at
Case no.: 2515811930
.1995
Consultation or transfer reason
Anamnesis
Status, diagnostics and findings
Endo first presentation Doctor's letter
Patient comes with persistent dysmenorrho- and dyscheziehächechäche and secondary sterility
For about 2 years.
The patient was operated on in Wels in Wels in February 2024. Here was intraoperatively a deep
Infiltring endometriosis with the participation of the Septum Rectovaginal, the Rectum as well as the ligamentum
Sacrouterinums found on the left. The chromeopertubation was positive and right on the left
negative. The patient spontaneously born in 2015. After the birth, the dysmenorrhea came successively
Complaints. With regard to the pain, it indicates a lower abdominal pull, which partially in the thighs
as well as also radiates into the lumbar spine and also recurring pain, especially in the right
Underbells along with nausea and also vomit. With regard to the bowel movement, the
Patient an observation tendency, which was then partly followed by an episode with more fluid bowel movements.
The cycle is currently very regular, every 28 days with a bleeding period between 7 and 8 days, whereby the
Patient also feels the ovulation well. Ein Spermiogramm wurde 2023 durchgeführt. She tries with one
To get pregnant pregnant, this was inconspicuous. Findings.
No allergies, no noteworthy award.
The external genitalia unobtrusive.
In the specula setting, the portion forms, the cervix transverse, the vaginal epithelium inconspicuously.
Gynecology outpatient clinics - Nikolaigasse 43 43 - 9500 Villach
10.03.2025villach, on
Hageru / Goellesu
Dr. Canan Balci Byram
Porcelain passage 34
4600 Wels
1995, W
Endo first presentation Doctor's letter, 29.04.2025 13:33 2/2
Other recommended measures
Best regards
Finding: Dr. Ulrike Hager
Vidated by: Dr. Ulrike Hager
This document was signed electronically on March 11, 2025.
PS: Your family doctor can prescribe the same drug medication, but with a different name and appearance.
Diagnosis:
N80.4 Endometriosis of the septum Rectovaginal and the vagina
Deep infiltrating endometriosis with the participation of the septum Rectovaginale, selectively the vagina of the ligamentum
Sacrouterinums on the left and the rectum
Adenomyosis uteri
Focal adhesions
#Enzian P2, T?, A2, B1/0, C3, especially FA
In the back Fornix there is a slight trap, especially between 5 a.m. and 7 a.m.
In the bimanual examination uterus in Avfl.
Fornix as well as radiating into the ligamentum sacrouterinum on the left. Also the parametrium on
The right side is indurated.
Sonographically filled the bladder, the endothelium limited, the ureter maid is inconspicuous.
The kidneys on both sides somewhat spread kidney basin on the left, unobtrusive on the left.
Sonographically, the uterus in AVfl.
appears adenomyotic diffusely changed. There is a clear one in the area of ​​the Rectovaginale septum
Thickening of the wall or septum itself and lying behind it is a U-shaped curved
Rectum, which is adherent at the Cervix, with a length of 4.6 cm and 1 cm wide.
In the recall-digital examination, this stove from 10 cm from ano is easy to palpate and this will also be done by the patient
perceived as painful. In the area of ​​the distal share of the rectum stove there is still a small one
Subsequent stove of almost 5 mm size. Both ovaries, on the one hand the right ovar on the uterine side wall
or fossa ovarica adherent, on the other hand the left ovar seems to be adherent on the uterine background, here
You don't find a positive sliding phenomenon.
With the patient, the further imaging is carried out by carrying out an MRI/MRU with admission on April 29th. and
Performing the MRI, then laxative measure and carrying out a colonoscopy with surgical consil
And also gynecological idea for 04/30. planned. The patient does not necessarily want an artificial one
Fertilization. The adequate intake of folic acid, vitamin D and iron would be precious.
It should also be on the increased consumption of white flour products, dairy products and beef
waive. If the patient wants to get advice in an IVF institute, she will be the contact details
by Dr. Loimer given in Linz.
Dr. Ulrike Hager
Senior doctor
Code S name