1/3endo first presentation Doctor's letter, 29.04.2025 13:41
Landeskrankenanstaltes-Betriebsgesellschaft-Kabeg, UID-No.: ATU25802806
Business book number: FN 71434 A, CEO: State Court as Commercial Court Klagenfurt am Wörthersee
Information on data protection at www.kabeg.at/datenschutz
Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics
Clinical-scientific endometriosis center
Certified breast health center
Board: Priv.doz.dr.oliver Preyer, MBA
Nikolaigasse43
A-9500 Villach
E gyn.villach@kabeg.at
www.kabeg.at
Case no.: 2516863730
.1981
Consultation or transfer reason
Anamnesis
Endo first presentation Doctor's letter
Presentation of the specialist examination at V. a. Pronounced endometriosis in the small pool. navel
43-year-old G2 P2 Z. n.
(Birth arrest in the opening period, elective re-sectio)
With the following complaint constellation since the endocrine therapy 2020:
- Extreme primary dysmenorrhea NAS 8 The pain is cramped and radiate into the upper abdomen
(NAS 8)
-Hypermenorrhea metrorrhagia (4 bleeding days with partly hourly change of the tie)
- Colon symptoms catameniaal recurrent constipation, no meteorism, no mucus or
Blood deposits
- Periumbilical pain and bleeding NAS 8
For this reason, the patient was presented with her gynecologist and 2 mg mono on duty.
The patient is bleeding free of bleeding, largely symptom -free.
Without hormone therapy, the patient has to consume up to 5 tablets dysmenorrhea with 200-400 mg per
Day on all 4 bleeding days to be able to cope with everyday work.
Heat relieves the symptoms.
Interestingly, the patient is most affected by the hygienic problem of the nabel.
Size 1.63 m, weight 63 kg: BMI:
Gynecology outpatient clinics - Nikolaigasse 43 43 - 9500 Villach
31.03.2025villach, on
Hageru /
Gentleman
Dr. med. Josef Schneebauer
Stadtplatz 6
5280 Braunau am Inn
1981, W
Endo first presentation Doctor's letter, 29.04.2025 13:42 2/3
Status, diagnostics and findings
Nicotine: approx. 5 cigarettes daily
Allergies: none known
Preliminary surgery: 2 times sectiot binding
Chronic diseases/medication: no/analgesics and currently progestogenic
Menarche: 14 years
Cycle: regularly 28-day/mens 4-day
Hypermenorrhea
Contraception has no longer been necessary since the vasectomy of the husband of the patient in 2020
Diagnosis:
N80.1 Endometriosis of the ovar
R19.4 Change of stool habits
N94.5 secondary dysmenorrhea
N92.0 too strong or too frequent menstruation with regular menstrual cycle
N80.9 Endometriosis, not described in more detail
N80.8 Other endometriosis
N80.3 Endometriosis of the pelvic peritoneum
N80.0 endometriosis of the uterus
N80.5 Endometriosis of the intestine
Tie with
- Pronounced adenomyosis uteri v.a. the HW
- Adhesion situs
Abdomen softly under the thorax level, sectional pale pale
Nabel: Provide translucent knotty lesion with a small 0.8 mm Livide
sensitive to pressure. The surrounding tissue and the musculi recent abdominis free
Sonography: cystic lesion of almost 2 x 0.9 cm
Vulva: age
Speculum: Portio clumsily directed dorsally and hardly mobile. The representation of the rear Fornix only succeeds
Partial, since the cervix cannot be relocated to ventrally without pain. Also vague the Fornices.
Palpation: Uterus spangy enlarged heavily mobile from the small pool. The ligamentum sacrouterinum on the left
Shortened, in the depth you grab a knotty induration, which is also sensitive to pressure
Ausläufern seitwärts.
Rectal: This induration can also be felt rectally and the mucous membrane is fixed at the point. The
Remaining mucous membrane tender and displaced.
Transvaginal sonographic: the bladder is only moderately filled bladder wall. Ureters until the entry into
The bladder clearly displayed with inconspicuous caliber and peristalsis.
The uterus is S-shaped deformed has a clear wall discrepancy in favor of the rear wall (1.3 versus 2.8
cm The cavum under the metrissa flat, however, the endometrium in the fundus area. At the
Hinter wall diffusely inhomogeneous as with pronounced adenomyosis. Length 7.1 width 5.4 cm The contour of the uterus
is partially deformed with emphasis on the uterine background in the fundus area. Recognizes on the front wall
The sectionarbe, which has healed very well. The right ovar is small with point -shaped calcifications
Measures 2.3 x 1.4 x 1.8 cm This area goes into an inhomogeneous tissue
Endometriosis could be provided with the left ovar in today's examination 3 larger antral follicles
and measures 4 x 2.6 x 3.9 cm that are rare without color pathological vascularization the cystic lesions
Echoleer and without papillary structures when looking through the intestine, starting from the rectum, you come up
Height of the Pars ISTHMICA uterine background to numerous adhesions accompanied by muscularis widening. 2
are clearly identifiable and probably from the septum of rectovaginal or ligamentum sacrouterinum on the left
Pulls the endometriotically enforced fabric with bright foothills to the 2 intestinal sections with muscularis
Widening. There is also a painful push palpation at this point. Stored in this district
the left ovar.
Kidney Sono Bds. No stop for urinary congestion.
Code S name
1981, W
Endo first presentation Doctor's letter, 29.04.2025 13:42 3/3
Summary assessment
Best regards
Finding: Dr. Ulrike Hager
Vidated by: Dr. Ulrike Hager
This document was signed electronically on April 10, 2025.
PS: Your family doctor can prescribe the same drug medication, but with a different name and appearance.
- intestinal division 2 places on the Rsigmoid
- Participation of the B compartment BDS and SRV
Navel endometriosis
U#Enzian O1-2?, T3/3, A2, B3/2-3, C2 (2 herd), FA, F (navel)
After the patient is symptom -free and bleeding -free under duty therapy, there is no mandatory
Indication for operational renovation. Operative renovation is possible due to the complex
Operation situs associated with surgical risks. In view of the age of the patient, the
Completed Families Planes A radical renovation with nabble renovation, hysterectomy and more extensive
Darmadhäsiolys. The resection of the connective tissue in the B compartment must be received with maximum receipt of the
Hypoplastic nerves and can require a compromise solution that briefly extended
Due to the oligo -symptomatic patient, intestinal parts are not necessarily subject to resection.
After the patient needs to think about it, a MRT is terminized in the clinic in 6 months
(September 2025). The patient will receive the MRI appointment by phone. The patient can go to
Freedom of symptoms consider whether she is striving for a surgical solution. An indication for operational renovation
If a progress under therapy would be, so if the procedure is conservative (once a year or at
Occurrence of symptoms) a check with the endometrioses specialist.
Dr. Ulrike Hager
Senior doctor