1/3endo first presentation Doctor's letter, 29.04.2025 13:28
Landeskrankenanstaltes-Betriebsgesellschaft-Kabeg, UID-No.: ATU25802806
Business book number: FN 71434 A, CEO: State Court as Commercial Court Klagenfurt am Wörthersee
Information on data protection at www.kabeg.at/datenschutz
Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics
Clinical-scientific endometriosis center
Certified breast health center
Board: Priv.doz.dr.oliver Preyer, MBA
Nikolaigasse43
A-9500 Villach
E gyn.villach@kabeg.at
www.kabeg.at
Case no.: 2516838630
.1995
Consultation or transfer reason
Anamnesis
Endo first presentation Doctor's letter
The presentation is carried out for a second opinion at Z. n. Operation of a deep infiltrating endometriosis with
Robot surgery in April 2024.
30-year-old nulligravida with the following complaint personnel after operational removal of a deep infiltrating
Endometriosis:
-strong dysmenorrhea, NAS 4-8, the pain is pulling and spasmodic, rays towards the sacrum,
Buttocks and in the left thigh down to the knee. The complaints begin with a regular cycle,
who currently does not exist, about a week before menstruation is inserted and run through menstruation
A week, the Punctum Maximum finds between 1. and 2nd cycle day with pain tips on NAS 9.
-Dyspareunie: In the event of deep penetration, the patient reports stinging pain (according to sex fragey arches
NAS 7!) With negative influence of their sexuality and avoidance of sexual intercourse due to the
Fear of pain. The patient can only enjoy her sexuality medium -sized after, especially post -coital
Pain released with fresh bleeding on the day after sexual intercourse and over
Hours can last.
-Chronic lower abdominal pain in the cross area, NAS 5.
-Intestine: There is an increased emptying frequency with partly seven empties per day during the
Menstruation in the first 2-3 days with otherwise two to a maximum of three stool emptying per day. There are
no blood deposits occurred, but mucus storage. A real dyschezie describes
Gynecology outpatient clinics - Nikolaigasse 43 43 - 9500 Villach
31.03.2025villach, on
Janscheke / Tushal
Woman
Dr. Isabella Kirchmair
Bergwerkstrasse 1
5120 St. Pantaleon
1995, W
Endo first presentation Doctor's letter, 29.04.2025 13:28 2/3
Status, diagnostics and findings
The patient only in a starch NAS 2.
-Blases: Since the operation, the patient has no bladder complaints, but she reports before the operation
Catamous bladder emptying disorders that occurred about 4-6 months before the operation. It
there was an increased urge to urinate with difficult emptying, cycle day 1-2. These symptoms are
nun weg (aus dem Operationsbericht wird Blasenscheitel-Peritonealendometriose beschrieben, welche radikal
was removed, even knotty herds were removed).
Due to the entire constellation of the complaint, the patient already has tramadol in drop shape, about 20 pro
Tag or if necessary at work, also I.V. pain reliever such as seractile, paracetamol to be consumed to
to be able to work at all.
After the operation, the patient was initially symptom -free and then again
to have developed progressive complaints. There is a very strong uncertainty and overall
Load due to the chronification of the symptoms.
Heat helps so that the patient regularly takes warm bathrooms, applied heat bottle and cherry stone pillows.
After the complaints have reinstated postoperatively, ZoladeX therapy is now supposed to
Appealsist is started for six months. After that, the imaging using MRI
be supplemented in the small pool.
Diagnosis:
N80.5 Endometriosis of the intestine
N80.9 Endometriosis, not described in more detail
F45.3 Somatoforme autonomous dysfunction
M54.4 Lumboischialgia
N80.3 Endometriosis of the pelvic peritoneum
N80.4 Endometriosis of the septum Rectovaginal and the vagina
N94.1 Dyspareunie
N94.3 PREMENTRUAL COMMENTS
The patient in normal AZ and EZ.
Abdominal blanket soft and under the thoracic level, the incisions of palpator.
Vulva age-old, as early as the speculum setting, you can see a pronounced pelvic floor
Hypertension, the portio is fixed in dorsal, but when careful elevations you can see on the back
Fornix again polypoid mucous membrane changes on the vagina with additional scarring into the
Depth. The setting of the finding is already painful for the patient, so that the pelvic bodenonus is still
increased.
Palpation: There is a pronounced pelvic floor hypertension, in addition the levator legs are
Ramus inferior ossis pubis extremely indurated and pressure dolent. In the depth you grab a Maribelle sized
Induration with bright foothills, which is extremely pressure -dolent.
In the rectal examination, the mucous membrane is fixed at this point and the radiant foothills is well too
Buttons, the finding is also very painful.
Transvaginal sonographically you can see a approximately 2 x 1 1/2 cm district on the rear Fornix, which thickens
is and sometimes even has cystic storage. The uterus is normal in AVFL, the iud is in
Orthotoper Lage. At the level of the septum rectovaginal or ligamentum sarcouterinum on the left you can see from the
Rectum wall of a classic intestinal herd that is connected to the widened rear Fornix, there
There is a new fixed adhesion, two main districts on the intestine have a clear muscular expansion
on. The rest of the intestinal section has no further muscular expansion that has the right ovar
Sonomorphologically no safe endometrioma lesions and measures 2.4 x 1.7 x 2.8 cm. The left ovar, however,
is attached to the left uterine edge, possibly a little adherent and is elongated with
isolated antral follicles. The ovar measures 3.4 x 1 x 3.7 cm.
The bladder itself is medium -sized, smoothly contoured. The bladder handling fold is free and well displaced, the
Bladder -close ureter sections literally with inconspicuous peristalsis. There is no free liquid.
Renal sonography shows urinary stalks on both sides, with the right kidneys a small and smooth -walled
Echolere cystic lesion of 2.5 cm.
Code S name
1995, W
Endo first presentation Doctor's letter, 29.04.2025 13:28 3/3
Other recommended measures
Best regards
Finding: Dr. Elisabeth Janschek
Vidated by: Dr. Laura Ziurle
This document was signed electronically on April 13, 2025.
PS: Your family doctor can prescribe the same drug medication, but with a different name and appearance.
N94.5 secondary dysmenorrhea
N95.3 Conditions related to artificial menopause
V. a. Persistence and recently symptomatic deep infiltrating endometriosis in the small pool (back
Compariment)
-Arnute vaginal involvement/persistence
Colonometriosis personnel at Z. n. Darmshaving
-Narbigal conversion of the persistence of endometriosis in both B compartments (left more than right)
Recurrent of the dysmenorrhea, dyspareunia, chronic lower abdominal pain
Lumboischialganzormal pain
Fatigue syndrome
As part of a very detailed conversation, the patient is encouraged to
to have it carried out, as well as the planned MRI.
We then ask you to send the MRI images, pre- and postoperative or post-zoladex and the
Improvement of the patient.
In the meantime, the patient should lead a pain diary with ongoing therapy in order to be clear
what is currently the main burden on the symptoms.
In principle, with good symptom control, the switch to a GnRH antagonist could either be either
with fixed addback therapy in the sense of Ryeqo or an antagonist with patient-cut
Addback therapy in the sense of YSSELTY.
Dr. Elisabeth Janschek
1. Senior doctor
i.V. Dr. Laura Ziurle
Senior doctor
Code S name